Delete DOMTimestamp and EpochTimestamp (#17096)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/unix_time/index.md

---
title: Unix time
slug: Glossary/Unix_time
tags:
  - Glossary
---
The **Unix time** is the amount of time, expressed in millisecond, that happened since a specific point in time, called the _epoch_. It doesn't take into account leap seconds.

It is a timestamp used to store a specific time. The epoch is arbitrarily set as January 1st, 1970, at midnight (UTC).

The Unix time can be stored in two ways, depending on the need of the API:

> - As an integer.
> - As a floating-point value. The fractional part of the number indicates fractions of a millisecond, with a precision of up to 5 microseconds. Browsers _fuzz_ the value (typically between 60 microseconds and 2 milliseconds. This fuzzing increases security by preventing timing attacks.

Reviewer: It might be helpful here to name these two methods. In particular if we called the second one "high-resolution timestamp" is would be more descriptive and link more directly to the type. But then I'm not sure what we would call the other one. A normal timestamp?

I'm also not sure "fuzz" is correct here: usually in security I think of fuzzing as providing bad or randomized values to an API, to stress-test it (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Fuzzing). In any case "fuzz" is more jargony than just "reduced precision" which (I think?) is what we ware talking about here.

I'm not sure I understand "typically between 60 microseconds and 2 milliseconds", but I guess it refers to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMHighResTimeStamp#reduced_time_precision, but that seems to be quite Firefox-specific.

So perhaps:

```suggestion
- A normal timestamp is stored as an integer.
- A high-resolution timestamp is stored as a floating-point value. The fractional part of the number indicates fractions of a millisecond, with a precision of up to 5 microseconds. Browsers may provide a coarser time precision for these timestamps, as a security measure to prevent timing attacks.
```

That said it does look like the coarsening algorithm is in the spec: https://w3c.github.io/hr-time/#dfn-coarsen-time so I wonder if we should describe it here. And then I'm a bit worried that this doesn't belong in a glossary entry for Unix time any more, and maybe we should instead include it in a section in https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance .
